Scala is an interesting language, but I think it’s trying to do too many things and failing at a lot of them. This could be a bias from having just learned the language, but some of what I’m noticing seems likely to be features of the language instead of just my incomplete knowledge of it.

First, the good parts: Scala is a language which supports both functional and imperative programming. It has a lot of neat features like pattern matching, immutable-by-default, faux binary and postfix operator overloading, type inference, and algebraic data types. It also has a huge standard library, partly from Java and partly solely for its language. If I need to write anything for the JVM, I will consider Scala (although I don’t know how well it integrates with other JVM stuff, and if I need to use the JVM then perhaps the people most concerned with my project will know Java better and I should use that). It has great Eclipse support, and what I’ve seen of the Scala build tool is amazing.

However, I’m not sure it really does a good job when it’s actually doing something novel. All the features above are in other languages or environments, or are incremental improvements on things that are. Where Scala really stands out, or at least the primary feature we’re using in class, is the ability to manipulate the syntax. This is seen in the faux operator overloading I mentioned, and in the test library. However, there are very severe and sometimes arbitrary-seeming limits on what can be done to the syntax: you cannot overload prefix operators except for a *hardcoded* (!) list of four of them (or, in the more general case, you cannot call a function without parentheses unless it is either nullary or a unary method call, and the method must be separated from the sender by whitespace instead of a period), you cannot set operator precedence, a quick Googling says you can’t define your own custom literals, and I’d highly doubt you could manipulate the parse tree to implement any truly unScalay grammar. When I googled for custom literals I did find some interesting stuff about macros, so you might be able to get around some of these problems, but it also showed me that XML is built into the language directly. This implies that, say, JSON is *not implementable in Scala*; I would expect any language designed for writing DSLs to be able to handle one as simple as that.

If Scala simply failed at being as extensible as I would like, I wouldn’t particularly complain. It is still more extensible than most other languages, after all. However, in attempting to be extensible, it sacrifices other qualities. In many cases, it’s difficult to guess when parentheses are and are not needed; even Prof. Ben, who has been using the language for a while, messed up on that in class when trying to answer a question about it. Braces and parentheses can be used interchangeably in function calls most of the time, but not always. In essence, in trying to be extensible, they gave up a lot of consistency. I don’t know if that’s a necessary tradeoff for the extensibility they have, or if they extended the language in some ways without considering what kind of effect this would have on other aspects of the language. Either way, it seems like they gave up more in consistency than the gains in extensibility are worth in at least many cases.
